---
title: Clojure specific Which-key menu
date: 2024-08-19
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - neovim
---


Whilst looking for a Neovim way to have language specific configuration, I discovered the `after/ftplugin` approach.  This allows a configuration to be loaded when a buffer is switched to a specific language.

<!-- more -->

Having used Spacemacs (Emacs) for many years I was used to having language mode specific menus, e.g. Clojure has many cider which-key bindings available which are defined in the Clojure major mode.

I was curious how I could also do this with Neovim.

Whist `autocmd` definitions can be used for filetype specific actions, there is also a seemingly simpler approach using configuration in `after/ftplugin/` directory, i.e. `after/ftplugin/clojure.lua` for the Clojure filetypes.

The `after/ftplugin` approach is used to add meaningful names to the Conjure menus that display when pressing the local leader `,` to help with discoverability of commands.

```lua title="after/ftplugin/clojure.lua"
-- Loaded after clojure filetype set in buffer

local whichkey = require "which-key"

return {
  {
    "folke/which-key.nvim",
    -- Load Conjure Groups only for Clojure filetypes
    whichkey.add {
      -- Conjure sub-menus
      { "<LocalLeader>c", group = "Connect" },
      { "<LocalLeader>e", group = "Evaluate" },
      { "<LocalLeader>ec", group = "Comment" },
      { "<LocalLeader>g", group = "Go" },
      { "<LocalLeader>l", group = "Log" },
      { "<LocalLeader>r", group = "Refresh" },
      { "<LocalLeader>s", group = "Session" },
      { "<LocalLeader>t", group = "Test" },
      { "<LocalLeader>v", group = "Values" },
    },
  },
}
```

This should only show the menu when using the `localleader` when the current buffer is `clojure` filetype.  It seems to work so far...


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
