---
title: A new year... a new me
date: 2024-01-01
categories:
  - practicalli
---

**Thoughts for the week**

Going back to work for a rest... from all the exercise of winter solstace

Continuing to love using Neovide, although havent figured out how to use Neovide from the MacOSX launcher with AstroNvim. It works fine under Linux.

<!-- more -->


## Neovim

Created a simple video using some basics of Neovide with the AstroNvim configuration, with the aim to ensure the current OBS setup is working well.

Published a short video on Practicalli YouTube channel to test the new OBS setup and see if any changes to the layout are required.

Tested on Lenovo Android tablet and Pixel 2XL smartphone for text readability.

[Neovide test run video: Practicalli YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/CcVMDPIiwPA){target=_blank .md-button} 


## Neovide on MacOSX

I can launch Neovide using the Linux desktop launcher and it will pick up the shell alias I used to set AstroNvim as the configuration (NVIM_APPNAME).

However, in MacOSX there doesnt seem to be a clear way to do this.  There seem to be quite a few approaches, most of which turn out to be deprecated or removed from later versions of MacOSX.

MacOSX doesnt seem to have a `~/.profile` file by default but I will create one and source the `shell-aliases` file I use to set command line aliases such as `astro` and `neovide` with AstroNvim config.


## Stats for 2023

I have managed to commit something every day for 2023.  There is always plenty of work for Practicalli, so its usually easy to squeeze in a commit even on busy days.

Tried [GitHub Unwrapped](https://githubunwrapped.com/) which generates a video of some statistics from the given GitHub account name.  Posted the resulting video on my LinkedIn account.

[GitHub Unwrapped LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/jr0cket_a-few-statistics-from-my-github-contributions-activity-7147670025024278529-aEfN){target=_blank .md-button}

!!! INFO "GitHub Profile has more representative stats"
    The visualisations on the [Practicalli-johnny GitHub profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny) are realistic representations of my activities.


## Clojure

Ran the latest Clojure CLI pre-release with the Practicalli Clojure CLI Config aliases.  Had an issue with Cider-nrepl, though it seems to have been from a corrupted library download rather than the CLI version.

Nuked the local maven directory, `.m2/repository`, to test out the Clojure CLI pre-release at downloading dependencies again and there were no more issues.

Also tested the Clojure CLI with a directory containing an empty `deps.edn` file and was able to run the Rebel repl (`clojure -M:repl/rebel`) without any problems.  This release treats an empty `deps.edn` file as if it contained a valid data structure, i.e. `{}`, an empty hash-map.


## Practicalli

Monthly scheduled updates

- Clojure CLI Config library updates and CI actions
- Project Templates megalinter upload-artifact v4, setup-java v4 and using Java version 21, 

[GitHub health check files](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/creating-a-default-community-health-file) are added to practicalli/.github repository and apply to all repositories in that organisation, unless they provide their own file.

- `CONTRIBUTING.md` defines how to contribute to Practicalli
- `FUNDING.yml` defines ways to sponsor Practicalli work
- `LICENSE.md` Creative Commons Attribution Share-a-like license for all Practialli work
- `SECURITY.md` how to raise security related issues
- `SUPPORT.md` how to get support from Practicalli
- `PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE`
  - `clojure_code_contribution.md`
  - `practicalli_book_contribution.md`

## Debian

The `ifconfig` command used to be the way to view the local network address of the computer in Linux. This command has been retired in favor of the `ip` command.

!!! NOTE "Show the network addresses for the computer"
    ```shell
    ip address
    ```

The command may show one or more sections

- `loopback`
- ethernet cable, named similar to `enp0`
- wifi adaptor, named similar to `wlp`
- docker if the docker daemon is installed

??? EXAMPLE "Example output from ip address"
    ```shell
    ❯ ip address
    1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
        link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
        inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo
           valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
        inet6 ::1/128 scope host 
           valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    2: enp0s31f6: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
        link/ether 48:2a:e3:6b:11:46 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
        inet 192.168.0.212/24 metric 100 brd 192.168.0.255 scope global dynamic enp0s31f6
           valid_lft 5155sec preferred_lft 5155sec
        inet6 fe80::4a2a:e3ff:fe6b:1146/64 scope link 
           valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    3: wlp82s0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP group default qlen 1000
        link/ether 60:f2:62:15:1f:53 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
        inet 192.168.0.191/24 brd 192.168.0.255 scope global dynamic noprefixroute wlp82s0
           valid_lft 6617sec preferred_lft 6617sec
        inet6 fe80::bf0a:872b:9380:fb98/64 scope link noprefixroute 
           valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    4: docker0: <NO-CARRIER,BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state DOWN group default 
        link/ether 02:42:6e:e0:5f:c8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
        inet 172.17.0.1/16 brd 172.17.255.255 scope global docker0
           valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    ```

The `hostname` command can provide a simpler view of the network address

!!! EXAMPLE "Hostname interfaces"
    ```shell
    ❯ hostname -I
    192.168.0.212 192.168.0.191 172.17.0.1 
    ```


## Health

Over the Winter Solstace break I manage

- 3 cycle rides, totaling over 215km and 2,500 meters climbing
- 2 park runs, 5 km distance for each run, with a time of 34 minutes on 25th December and 33 minutes on 1st January 2024

A few walks of around an hour each to streatch my legs.

Started following some simple Pilates videos specifically designed to strengthen knees, which will be great for both cycling and running.

As I am organising my work calendar this month, I will ensure there is time for exercise each day and get into a routine that includes walking, yoga and pilates.

---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button} 

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button} 
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
