---
title: Gardening in the mornings
date: 2024-05-06
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
---


A new month so time to update libraries across Practicalli projects.

Bank holiday Monday and two personal holidays this week, so only two days at work and very few meetings, yay!.  Time to prepare for the company offsite event next week and see how lightly I can pack.

I made a big impact on upgrading the garden this week.  All the paving stones at the end of the garden were levelled so the shed is no longer on a slope.  A thick weed surpressing membrane was fitted underneath all the paving stones.

The raised garden bed was be reworked by adjusting the top of the railway sleepers to be level to the top of the paving stones.  This adds a nice clean line with the garden and makes maintenance in and around the garden easier. Weed surpressing membrane was added to the side and underneath of each sleeper.  Spare wood panels was used to keep the membrane in plate and to also add more robustness to the sleepers.

Most of the work was done in the early mornings as the weather was quite hot.

<!-- more -->

## Practicalli Clojure CLI Config

Monthly library updates and published a new release. Used AstroNvim & Neovim to update the libraries, instead of the usual Emacs approach.

A combination of search, highlight, jump and dot repeat commands were used to update the same version number of a specific library.

++slash++ followed by the library name to update to find the next occurrence, then ++dollar++ to jump to the end of the line and back a word to land on the string containing the version number.

++"#"++ to highlight all matching version number values (hopefully the same number of occurrences that antq found to update)

++"c"++ ++"w"++ to change the current version value and type in the updated version.

++"n"++ jumps to next occurrence and ++"N"++ jumps to previous occurrence.

++period++ repeats the change word action using dot-repeat, updating the next (or previous) matching version to update.

Jump through all library statements and dot-repeat to update all the versions.


## Practicalli Web Services

Generated a working Clojure API project from the `practicalli/service` template, using [donut-party/system](https://github.com/donut-party/system) to manage the service components.

```shell
clojure -T:project/create :template practicalli/service :name practicalli/gameboard :component :donut
```

Pushed the code to [practicalli/gameboard-donut](https://github.com/practicalli/gameboard-donut) to help others see how such a project is organised.


## Neovim

Pressing ++slash++ in insert mode causes Neovim to lock up, rather than showing completion for the file system path.  Some testing is required to see what could be the cause.

Test using the following

- run `nvim` without any config (check if this is a neovim bug or perhaps a missing feature)
- run `nvim` with the astro-template config (check if its any of my plugins that are causing the issue or if it also appears in the default AstroNvim config)


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
