---
title: Multiple SSH keys for Commercial and Community work
date: 2024-05-27
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - git
---

**Thoughts for the week**

Its easy to go down a rabbit hole of your own making when trying to make something complex work. Taking a step back allows for a much simpler approach to be considered.

I realised there was a much simpler approach to managing multiple SSH keys, especially when one of those keys is for commercial work that requires Single Sign-On authorisation.

<!-- more -->


## SSH Keys & Git client

There advantages to using separate SSH keys for work on commercial projects and open source projects.

- Increased security as only the SSH key with Single Sign-on (SSO) authorisation can send or receive data from the GitHub commercial Organisation.  SSO authorisation should always be require for commercial projects. 
- Increased tracability as signing commits with SSH keys has identity, the generated key and email address attached to the key via a comment when created, e.g. `ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "email@domain.com"` 

Using multiple keys only requires a little extra configuration and helps keep a good separation between commercial and community work.

!!! HINT "Multiple Git Identities"
    [Configuration of a Git client for Multiple Git Identities](https://practical.li/engineering-playbook/source-control/git-configuration/#multiple-git-identities) can define a specific SSH key for a subset of projects, e.g. all projects under a `company-name` directory

> Practicalli recommends [SSH keys for commit & tag signing](https://practical.li/engineering-playbook/source-control/git-configuration/#commit-signing-with-ssh-key) as the configuration is simpler than PGP key signing


## SSH Keys & GitHub

Multiple SSH keys can be used to push commits to a GitHub account by defining a host for each key in `$HOME/.ssh/config`.

A host can have a name expressing its purpose, e.g. `Host practicalli`, `Host company-name`.  Or a host can match all SSH calls with `Host *`

A host definition can be for the same service, e.g. `HostName github.com`

The URL in the git remote url should use the Host name rather than the service URL

!!! EXAMPLE "SSH Configuration with Multiple SSH keys"
    ```config title="$HOME/.ssh/config"
    # ------------------------------------------ 
    # SSH Configuration - Practicalli
    #
    # - Remote Clojure Server nREPL connection
    # - Multiple SSH Keys for GitHub
    # ------------------------------------------ 

    # ------------------------------------------ 
    # Host Aliases for GitHub Multiple SSH keys
    # - HostName is used as connection domain

    Host community
      HostName github.com
      IdentityFile ~/.ssh/community

    Host commercial
      HostName github.com
      IdentityFile ~/.ssh/commercial

    Host engineering
      HostName github.com
      IdentityFile ~/.ssh/practicalli-engineering

    Host personal
      HostName github.com
      IdentityFile ~/.ssh/practicalli-johnny
    # ------------------------------------------ 

    # ------------------------------------------ 
    # MacOSX additional configuration

    # `UseKeyChain` required for MacOSX keychain access
    # Host company-name
        HostName github.com
    #   AddKeysToAgent yes
    #   UseKeychain yes
    #   IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
    # ------------------------------------------ 
    ```

### SSO sign-on

Using multiple Host definitions with SSH keys failed when a GitHub Organisation containing the repository requires Single Sign-on (SSO) authorisation.

Setting the default host, `Host *` with the key that has SSO authorisation resolves this issue.

!!! EXAMPLE "SSH Configuration with Default Host"
    ```config title="$HOME/.ssh/config"
    # ------------------------------------------ 
    # SSH Configuration - Practicalli
    # ------------------------------------------ 

    # ------------------------------------------ 
    Host *
      HostName github.com
      IdentityFile ~/.ssh/commercial

    # Host for Community key commented
    # Host engineering
    #   HostName github.com
    #   IdentityFile ~/.ssh/practicalli-engineering
    # ------------------------------------------ 
    ```

!!! INFO "Assumption: Pushing can be done with any SSH Key added to GitHub account"
    Once a commit has been signed by the relevant key, the identity is part of that commit.

    Using a different SSH key than was used to signed a commit does not change the commit.  As long as an SSH key has been added to the GitHub account that has access, any key can be used.

    A specific key is only requred when the GitHub Organisation owning a repository requires a key to be SSO authorisation.


## Project library dependency updates


- Practicalli Sustainable Life 
  - Megalinter update-artifacts v4
- Practicalli Project Templates 
  - add `outdated` Makefile task from Clojure CLI Config project
  - DeLaGuardo/setup-clojure 12.5        
  - actions/cache v4.0.2      
  - clj-kondo/clj-kondo 2024.05.24  
  - clojure/brew-install 1.11.3.1463 
  - greglook/cljstyle 0.16.626    
  - io.github.seancorfield/deps-new .7.1      
  - lambdaisland/kaocha 1.91.1392   
  - org.clojure/clojure 1.11.3      
  - org.clojure/clojure 1.11.3      


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button} 

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button} 
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}

