---
title: Learn Clojure book
date: 2024-09-02
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
---

**Thoughts for the week**

Work on Practicalli Learn Clojure book, a practical guide to getting comfortable working with Clojure.  A full guide to using Clojure is in the Practicalli Clojure book.

Added RSS feed for Journal, although I feel that all these blogs should be merged into the [https://practical.li/blog](practical.li blog) site for a single collection or articles.  The articles can be categorised to keep them separate.

Health is still recovering from a little Covid symptoms.  Took Monday off work and slept most of the day.

<!-- more -->


## Learn Clojure

A book to get you started with Clojure in a very practical way, for those curious about Clojure but haven't yet decided to go all in.

- Install (simplified)
- Using the REPL effectively
  - a brief mention to using an editor and what features will beneifit
- Essential concepts
  - comments, expressions (prefix notation), namespaces, simple data
- Writing and Evaluating code
- Writing and running tests
- Specifications & Generative testing
- Essential code styles & format tools
- Essential idioms
- Essential functions and namespaces from the Clojure Standard Library
- Challenges and day projects (can be completed in a day or less)
- Reference: Core principles (summary in introduction)

The book will purposely avoid topics that are very rarely used, e.g. Macros, `deftypes`, `defrecords`, leiningen, community libraries, etc

Should the reader want to go all in with Clojure, they should select the most appropriate book from the Practicalli Collection

- Practicalli Clojure - the full Clojure workflow
- Practicalli Clojure Web Services - production level projects build on reitit, reitit-ring, mutaana, jetty, mulog, etc.
- Practicalli ClojureScript - Pure ClojureScript projects figwheel (and little or no JavaScript packages or interop)
- Practicalli Neovim and Practicalli Spacemacs for editor specific guides


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
