---
title: Long Cold Winter
date: 2024-12-02
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - neovim
  - mason
  - codec
  - opus
---

[Converted some audio files to Opus codec](#converting-audio-with-ffmpeg), which provides a really optimum compression and allows for relatively low bit rates and results in much smaller files with the same quality.

Neovim upcoming changes

- neovim 0.11 has some breaking changes, so assume early in 2025
- astronvim v5 once neovim 0.11 released
- [:fontawesome-brands-github: mason-tool-installer.nvim](https://github.com/WhoIsSethDaniel/mason-tool-installer.nvim) to simplify mason config in astronvim v5 - discussed in Atronvim Discord community.  maston-tool-installer still [:fontawesome-brands-github: uses the mason registry](https://github.com/WhoIsSethDaniel/mason-tool-installer.nvim/blob/main/lua/mason-tool-installer/init.lua) for tool versions.

Starting to [update my CV from recent commercial experiences](#notes-for-updating-my-cv), focusing on the areas of product, delivery and people.

<!-- more -->


## Neovim and Clojure LSP

Mason manages the installation of LSP servers, format and lint tools for Neovim.

There is a [:fontawesome-brands-github: Renovate GitHub App](https://github.com/apps/renovate) that keeps source code dependencies up to date.  Mason registry uses renovate to bump its config to use the latest releases of each tool.

[:fontawesome-brands-github: PR #7896](https://github.com/mason-org/mason-registry/pull/7896){target=_blank} bumps Clojure LSP to lates release in the Mason Registry.

[:fontawesome-brands-github:  PR #7896 bump Clojure LSP to lates release - Mason Registry](https://github.com/mason-org/mason-registry/pull/7896){target=_blank .md-button}


## converting audio with ffmpeg

The Opus codec has excellent compression ability and music and spoken word can be encoded in a relatively low bit rate.

128k variable bit rate encoding provides near transparent encoding. libopus uses [:globe_with_meridians: variable bit rate by default](https://ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg-codecs.html#libopus-1).

Opus recommended bit rates are:

- Music: 96 to 128k (I use 96k)
- Audiobooks: 32k

I had some books that were already encoded at 96k bit rate.  Converting them to 32k bit rate reduced the file size by a third without any noticeable drop in quality.

Using zsh pattern matching allows for a very simple script to convert multiple files in the current directory, saving them in a separate `32k` directory (otherwise the script may have converted all the new opus files it created).

!!! EXAMPLE "Convert Opus encoded files to 32k bit rate"

    ```shell
    #!/usr/bin/zsh

    # Convert Opus audio files to 32k bitrate
    # zsh specific parsing of current directory
    # converted files saved in `32k` directory

    for x in *.opus ; do
      ffmpeg -i "$x" -b:a 32k -c:a libopus "32k/${x:r}".opus
    done
    ```

!!! EXAMPLE "Convert raw WAV files to Opus 96k bit rate"

    ```shell
    #!/usr/bin/zsh

    # Convert wav files to 96k bit rate Opus encoded files
    # zsh specific parsing of current directory

    for x in *.wav ; do
      ffmpeg -i "$x" -b:a 96k -c:a libopus "${x:r}".opus
    done
    ```


## Book List

I have time to read and reread some of the physical books before I dispatch them to one of the book buying companies for a second chance at life.

- The Goal - Goldratt
- Critical Path - Goldratt
- Its Not Luck - Goldratt
- The Mythical Man Month (20th anniversary edition) - Fred Brooks
- Death March - Yourdon
- Agile Retrospectives (there is a 2nd edition to read)



## Notes for updating my CV

Its time to update my CV based on the experiences of my last commercial engagement.

Some advice from a trusted recruiter is to organise the experiences around Product, Delivery and People.  This seems a sensible approach and should help me explore and communicate my experiences in a meaningful way.

Product:

- working with product manager on priorities
- wrote pitches with a technical focus
- reviewed and where necessary refactor the pitch for engineers to consume

Pitches could grow quite significantly during discovery, which could evolve over many months.


Delivery:

- enhanced our ways of working, regular retrospectives,
- definition of DONE
- clearly defined milestones / Epics to know when
- UAT baked in often and early
- time scoped work to minimise scope creep and keep focus on the essentials
-

People:

- regular 1-2-1 sessions with notes, ensuring people felt safe to communicate their concerns
- empathising and sharing similar experiences
- career progression - mentored 3 of the team to promotion within the year, with a 4th to be promoted by moving to a more appropriate team (via a 4 month transition)


## One 2 Ones

The 1-2-1 is a tool to build a trusted relationship between two people.  There can be many challenges along the way and people need a way to discuss issues and feelings in a safe space.

If one person is in positional power (or perceived that way), they should take extra care to be transparent and


The first 1-2-1 session should establishing the expectations of each person involved regarding this type of meeting.  These expectations may evolve over time, so should be regularly revisited.

A checklist for the first meeting:

- capture expectations
- discuss preferences on meeting frequency
- establish note taking as a valuable practice
- start to capture specific actions and who note who is responsible for completing those actions
- start to establish trust

1-2-1 aims:

- building an relationship with each person on the team
- encouraged them to make head space for challenges they faced and thinking how they could alleviate them

[One to One meeting - Practicalli Engineering Playbook](https://practical.li/engineering-playbook/practices/discussions/one-to-one-meeting/){target=_blank .md-button}


## Career progression

If you believe you are ready and everyone already considers you at the next level, then it should be trivial to convey to management that a promotion is due.

A bragging document is a self-organised history of achievements during work.  The primary purpose is to identify if there are gaps that could be addressed that would prevent a promotion.


## Retrospective notes

Every team and every individual has the potential to enhance how they work

Potential
Purpose
Goal

Dont have to improve constantly, but a continual review of the situation (situational awareness) is important for growth


Data points
- automated processes
  - are they causing a constraint
  - do we understand how they work
  - are there optimisations that could be made
- testing
  - is the test run time a constraint / blocker
  - can tests be continually run (watch for changes in specific tests or logical parts of the code base)
  - does test run time deter tests from always running

- was the current work more or less challenging than expected ()  - careful this doents get into a time aspect



What we did well / should do more of
- what makes us successful already
- what helps us build on more success

What didnt work so well / should do less of or stop
- what slows us down or prevents success
- do we know why we are doing these things (motivation / drivers)


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
