---
title: Holiday in Paramout Plus
date: 2024-10-21
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
---

After being ill for most of the week I am finally starting to enjoying my second week of holiday, binging on some Paramount+ and having a lazy Sunday enjoying the extra hour in bed after the end of summer time.

Updating Practicalli Journal and Clojure CLI Config repositories, fixing links and markdown issues from the Megalinter reports.

Updating to Megalinter 0.8.1 GitHub action on Practicalli repositories as I work on them.  The upgrade will include each repository in the Grafana dashboards for Practicalli projects.

Issues

- **DOING** [security: add clj-watson to clojure cli config](https://github.com/practicalli/clojure-cli-config/issues/87)
- **DOING** zsh environment varaibles not loading into jvm

<!-- more -->

## Clojure CLI Config

Resolved all the issues reported by Megalinter.

Updated the Megalinter config and workflows to the latest versions and common Practicalli configs.

Installed [markdown-table-formatter](https://github.com/nvuillam/markdown-table-formatter) npm package globally to ensure all the markdown tables were correctly formatted.

```shell
npm install markdown-table-formatter -g
```

The README.md file containing the markdown tables was saved and any changes staged, so I could see exactly what the markdown-table-formatter tool fixed.

```shell
markdown-table-formatter README.md
```

All the markdown tables were updated and nicely formatted.

> NOTE: There is a `--check` option, but this did not give any details of what tables were not correctly formatted, so not a useful option in this case.


## clj-watson

clj-watson is a software composition analysis (SCA) tool, reporting on security vulnerabilities detected in the libraries used for a project.

clj-watson scans for reported security vulnerabilities for library dependencies defined in the deps.edn file of a Clojure project.  clj-watson also scans transitive library dependencies (library dependencies of each defined dependency)

An `:security/nvd-scan` alias has been designed for [Practicalli Clojure CLI Config](https://github.com/practicalli/clojure-cli-config).

!!! EXAMPLE ":security/nvd-scan alias design"
    ```clojure
      ;; clj-holmes/clj-watson/
      ;; Request an API key from: https://nvd.nist.gov/developers/request-an-api-key
      ;; `CLJ_WATSON_NVD_API_KEY` set to API key value
      :security/nvd-scan
      {:replace-deps
       {io.github.clj-holmes/clj-watson {:git/tag "v6.0.0" :git/sha "cb02879"}}
       :main-opts ["-m" "clj-watson.cli" "scan"]}
    ```

The alias requires an [API Key to access the NIST National Vulnerability Database (NVD)](https://nvd.nist.gov/developers/request-an-api-key).

`CLJ_WATSON_NVD_API_KEY` environment variable was set to the value of the API Key via the `.zshenv` file in my user account.

Tested the `:security/nvd-scan` alias with the [Practicalli Project Templates](https://github.com/practicalli/project-templates) repository.

Running the designed alias was not picking up the `CLJ_WATSON_NVD_API_KEY` environment variable

!!! NOTE "Fails to find API Key"
    ```shell
    clojure -M:security/nvd-scan
    ```

!!! INFO "Zsh configuration broken - not loading env vars correctly"
    On one laptop the zsh configuration has a fault and environment variables are not being loaded when running `clojure`.  The suggestion from the Clojure community was to ensure autoexport is set.
    ```shell
    setopt allexport && source ~/.zshenv
    ```

Defining the NIST API Key as part of the command successfully downloaded the database and scanned the library dependencies.

!!! NOTE "Successfully finds key"
    ```shell
    CLJ_WATSON_NVD_API_KEY=xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx clojure -M:security/nvd-scan
    ```

!!! WARNING "20 minutes to download the database"
    On first run of the clj-watson tool, the NIST NVD database took 20 minutes and 32 seconds to download (on a very good Internet connection).  Successive runs take about 10 seconds, although may be longer if there are substantial updates to the database.

!!! HINT "Added CLJ_WATSON_NVD_API_KEY to GitHub Secrets"
    Practicalli GitHub Org is used to securely store API keys and other sensitive values.  Secrets can be used by GitHub actions across any repository that is part of the Practicalli organisation.


## Neovim

The neogit graph view is now powered by [gitgraph.nvim](https://github.com/isakbm/gitgraph.nvim).  There is a specific `graph_style` for the [Kitty Terminal](https://practical.li/engineering-playbook/command-line/kitty-terminal/)

!!! INFO "Neogit change history from Astro update"
    ```git
        d523ae3 Add both flog style "unicode" graph and gitgraph style graph for kitty. (2 days ago)
        3f82e30 Replace flog graph with gitgraph.nvim so we can support color (2 days ago)
    ```

!!! EXAMPLE "Practicalli Astro - Astrocommunity plugin overrides - Neogit plugin"
    ```lua title="lua/plugins/user-practicalli.lua"
      -- Neogit: astrocommunity.git.neogit
      {
        "neogit",
        dependencies = {
          { "nvim-lua/plenary.nvim", "sindrets/diffview.nvim" },
        },
        opts = {
          disable_signs = true, -- duplicate signs if enabled
          -- graph_style = "unicode", -- elegant commit graph
          graph_style = "kitty", -- elegant commit graph
          integrations = { diffview = true },
        },
        keys = {
          -- Neogit status - overrides stage hunk astronvim mapping
          { "<leader>gs", "<cmd>Neogit<cr>", desc = "Status (Neogit)" },
        },
      },
    ```


## TV Series

Star Trek Lower Desks provides a different and often quite silly experience of the world of Star Fleet.  Catching up with season 3 this week.

A Gentleman in Moscow is a moving Drama that covers some of the darkest times of the USSR. It provides a unique view of the peoples revolution and Stalin era from a person of privilege, adjusting to their new and revoltingly dark reality.

The Castaways was okay, a nice distraction whilst fixing issues reported by Megalinter.

---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
